Special MAPR text for MIDN 2/C Jeremy Wolfe

MIDN Wolfe has taken it upon himself to design and build a quadrotor flight controller based on all US parts. Changes in National Defense Authorization Act (NDAA) wording, to exclude all unmanned aerial system (UAS) parts with components from the People's Republic of China, have been a major logistics problem for School of Drones and the Midshipman Drone Racing Team, and have severely hampered our teaching. Wolfe's design includes an STM32F722RET6 microcontroller, 6 axis accelerometer and gyroscope, on-screen display capability, dual power supplies, 16GB data flash, 4 USARTs, LED control, and ESC telemetry. Beltway startup contractors sell similar platforms to a captive DOD market but at ten times the price, which is prohibitive for instructional use in platforms we wish midshipmen to build, fly, crash, repair, and modify; Wolfe's design is under 40$. Uniquely, Wolfe's design also includes a Serial Wire Debug interface and pad for trace output, allowing midshipmen to flash and alter the code on the device. The research and design work required over 200 man-hours of effort and was well beyond normal undergraduate coursework in Robotics and Control Engineering. Wolfe's final design is 30x30 mm and weighs less than 7 g. 

The president of the Drone Racing Team, MIDN 1/C Davis, adds: "MIDN 2/C Wolfe has brought an unparalleled level of technical expertise to the Midshipman Drone Racing Team. He is consistently helping other midshipmen on the team repair their quadcopters or advising prospective members on how to build their own. As a Robotics and Control engineer, he has exceeded what I thought was possible for a 2/C MIDN. He took it upon himself to design and manufacture flight controllers for the team – complaint with NDAA restrictions. With MIDN 2/C Wolfe’s effort, we are closer to competition level as a drone racing team."

In addition to the flight controller, Wolfe has used the skills gained on the project to train other midshipmen, including firsties, in circuit board design. Wolfe is a driving force on the MIDN Drone Racing Team, sharing technical knowledge and training new drone operators despite the cancellation of the EW281C class. Wolfe did all of this on his own initiative, outside of any class or credit, even funding some of the parts for initial designs himself. Wolfe's voluntary execution of a design, build, and test program for a critical UAS part, while still a midshipman taking classes during COVID 19, are worthy of higher recognition than a mere MAPR; he should be nominated for an award.


